
Composition and Inheritance

Topics Discussed :
  - Composition - One class holding a reference to another, using the referenced
                  class to complete its function.
  - Inheritance - Superclass / subclass relationship
  - Abstract Classes
  - Parameterless Methods
  - Extending Classes
  - Overriding Methods and Fields
  - Parametric Fields
  - Invoking Superlcass Constructors
  - Polymorphism
  - Dynamic Binding
  - Final Members and Classes
  - Factory Objects and Methods

10.1 - Two-Dimensional Layout Library

Running example in this chapter will be creating a library for building and
rendering two dimensional layout elements. Each element will represent a
rectangle filled with text. We will have a factory method named "elem"

  elem(s: String): Element

Elements will be modeled with a new type named called, creatively enough,
"Element". It will have above and beside as methods, which receive a second
element and combines them.

  val column1 = elem("hello") above elem("***")
  val column2 = elem("***") above elem("world")

  hello ***
  *** world

Layout elements are a good example of a system in which objects can be built
from simple parts and combined together. It will also help you to understand
library design (simplest elements combined into larger more complex ones) and

Do not define parameterless methods unless the method has no side effects.
Paranethesis on the end of a function is a good indicator that some side effect
is occurring and that convention should be preserved.

To instantiate an abstract class (that cannot be created with new), it must be
extended by a non-abstract class.

Inheritance means that all members of the superclass are also members of the
subclass, with two exceptions:

  First, private members of the superclass are not inherited in the subclass
  Second, a member of a superclass is not inherited if a member within the same
          name and parameters is already implemented in the subclass. In that
          case, the member of the subclass overrides the member of the superclass.
          If the member in the subclass is concrete and the member in of the
          superclass is abstract the concrete member implements the abstract
          one.
